---
layout: post
title: You're up and running!
---

Against a never-ending cacophony of social media and a gluttony of online content, most people have become distracted and lacking in focus (you can count me in for this one). Deep Work by Cal Newport is an exploration into how some of the most productive people in the world maintain focus to complete their work to the highest standard.
The most concise way I can describe deep work is to liken it to interval training: bursts of highly focused, intense work with shallow work recovery periods. It is this technique of allowing yourself to work with such focus on a problem that you require recover periods that enables you to solve bigger, more impactful problems than working in a distracted state. Deep work just feels great too, I think most people would agree that the satisfaction of working hard on completing a piece of work yields the same sense of satisfaction as hard exercise.
Who you are, what you think, feel and do, what you love — is the sum of what you focus on
At times Newport treads a fine line between productivity and philosophy. There are moments where he really communicates the feeling of having a love for working hard and creating great things. His line “A deep life is not just economically lucrative, but a life well lived” encapsulates this. Who wouldn’t want to live a life where everything you do is intentional and celebrates the joy of working?
The way this book is written is very structured: Newport first breaks down the 3 reasons that deep work is important followed by the 4 rules of deep work, and each of those sections is also broken down into smaller principles. This is a book that I found very easy to read, given that I never felt lost in the middle of a large section.
What I liked about the book is how Newport gives workable examples of how you can nurture deep work in your life, from reflecting on your work during long walks (which I myself find very beneficial) to ways of avoiding getting distracted by social media and email. He also cites businesses and individuals who implemented deep work techniques into their workflow.
One example is software developers 37Signals who in 2007 reduced their work week to 4 days. The reasons for making this bold move was to encourage their employees to do better work, rather than more work: more time solving the big problems and less time in meetings and email.
Fewer official working hours help squeeze the fat out of the typical work week. Once everyone has less time to get their stuff done, they respect that time even more.
— Jason Fried, 37 Signals Co-founder
Deep Work is a book that will leave you analysing every part of your work day and considering how it contributes to your overall productivity, this book fits perfectly into the wider range of productivity books while giving its own take on how to do better work. Newport’s writing style is structured and utilitarian, yet a personality is formed throughout the book: that of a focused craftsman sharing their take on work and life.
